---
layout: post
title: "Social Awareness Regarding cyber Security"
date: 2025-09-14
description: "My book and the journey of writing it. Socail awareness in a broken system."
tags: [self-publish, book writing, cyber crime, social awareness, meta tags, Google Analytics, Jekyll, GitHub Pages]
---

*Introduction*

I am writing this book because cybersecurity is no longer just a technical problem—it is a human one. We live in a world where our personal data, identities, and daily interactions are increasingly shaped by the digital space. Yet while we invest in stronger passwords, advanced software, and complex firewalls, the greatest vulnerabilities often come down to human awareness.

Social awareness in the realm of cybersecurity means understanding not only how we interact with technology, but also how we interact with each other through it. Every email we open, every link we click, and every piece of information we share can ripple far beyond what we see. Hackers and malicious actors exploit habits, trust, and even curiosity. That is why building awareness isn’t just about learning to spot a phishing email—it’s about cultivating a mindset of attentiveness, respect, and responsibility in the digital spaces we share.

This book is my attempt to bridge the gap between technical defenses and human behavior. I have seen how easily a simple oversight—an unverified link, a careless download, a misjudged trust—can open the door to serious breaches. But I have also seen the opposite: how a culture of awareness, where people look out for each other and act with caution, can dramatically reduce risks. Just as in face-to-face life, where being socially aware helps us build stronger, more empathetic relationships, in cyberspace it helps us create safer and more resilient communities.

I believe that when we bring the principles of social awareness into cybersecurity, we start to shift the conversation. Instead of focusing only on threats and fear, we begin to see security as something shared—a responsibility and a value we uphold together. That perspective allows us to move beyond individual defense and into collective protection.

This book will not attempt to overwhelm you with jargon or highly technical instructions. Instead, it will explore the human side of cybersecurity: the habits, choices, and mindsets that matter most. My hope is to give readers the tools to recognize risks, but more importantly, to understand that awareness is an ongoing practice—one that strengthens both our digital lives and our relationships with each other.

In the end, cybersecurity is not just about protecting machines and data. It is about protecting people, and the trust that connects us. If this book helps even a few readers pause before clicking, question before sharing, or support someone else in staying safe online, then it will have fulfilled its purpose.
